# Novo Nordisk
## November 20, 2024

### PubChem Search: ozempic (semaglutide)

#### Summary

> * **drug_name:** ozempic
> * **active_ingredient:** semaglutide
> * **cid:** 56843331
> * **sid:** 85366789
> * **compound_synonyms:** ['Semaglutide', 'CHEBI:167574', 'NN-9535', 'NNC0480 0389', 'Rybelsus;Ozempic;NN9535;OG217SC;NNC 0113-0217', '53AXN4NNHX', 'semaglutidum', 'Wegovy', 'EX-A2424', 'Ozempic (injectable semaglutide)', 'Ozempic', 'semaglutida', '910463-68-2', 'A10BJ06', 'Semaglutide [USAN:INN]', 'NN 9535', 'DTXSID101027903', 'AC-32580', 'NNC-0113-0217', 'GTPL9724', 'ozempic', 'NNC 0113-0217', 'Semaglutide(sodium salt)?', 'NN9535', 'NN1535 ICOSEMA COMPONENT SEMAGLUTIDE', 'Rybelsus (oral semaglutide)', 'Semaglutide free base', 'SEMAGLUTIDE COMPONENT OF NN1535 ICOSEMA', 'Rybelsus', 'NN1535 LAISEMA COMPONENT SEMAGLUTIDE', 'Oral Semaglutide', 'UNII-53AXN4NNHX', 'semaglutide']
> * **substance_synonyms:** ['Semaglutide', 'CHEBI:167574', 'NN-9535', 'NNC-0113-0217', 'Ozempic', 'ozempic', '910463-68-2', 'NNC 0113-0217', 'NN9535', 'L-histidyl-2-methylalanyl-L-alpha-glutamylglycyl-L-threonyl-L-phenylalanyl-L-threonyl-L-seryl-L-alpha-aspartyl-L-valyl-L-seryl-L-seryl-L-tyrosyl-L-leucyl-L-alpha-glutamylglycyl-L-glutaminyl-L-alanyl-L-alanyl-N(6)-((N-(17-carboxyheptadecanoyl)-D-gamma-glutamyl)amino-10-oxo-3,6,12,15-tetraoxa-9-azaheptadecanan-1-oyl)-L-lysyl-L-alpha-glutamyl-L-phenylalanyl-L-isoleucyl-L-alanyl-L-tryptophyl-L-leucyl-L-valyl-L-arginylglycyl-L-arginylglycine', 'semaglutide', 'Rybelsus', 'NN 9535']
> * **description:** Semaglutide is a polypeptide that contains a linear sequence of 31 amino acids joined together by peptide linkages. It is an agonist of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptors (GLP-1 AR) and used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. It has a role as a hypoglycemic agent, a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist, an anti-obesity agent, a neuroprotective agent and an appetite depressant. It is a polypeptide and a lipopeptide.
> * **link:** https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/56843331

#### Pubmed Articles
> **[Beyond Weight Loss: the Emerging Role of Incretin-Based Treatments in Cardiometabolic HFpEF](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38294187)**
> * **Published**: 2024/05/01
> * **Journal**: *Current opinion in cardiology*
> * **Abstract**: Purpose of reviewIncretin-based drugs are potent weight-lowering agents, emerging as potential breakthrough therapy for the treatment of obesity-related phenotype of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). In this review article, we will discuss the contribution of weight loss as part of the benefits of incretin-based medications in obese patients with HFpEF. Furthermore, we will describe the potential effects of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) receptor agonists on the heart, particularly in relation to HFpEF pathophysiology.Recent findingsIn the STEP-HFpEF trial, the GLP-1 receptor agonist semaglutide significantly improved quality of life outcomes in obese HFpEF patients. Whether the beneficial effects of semaglutide in obese patients with HFpEF are merely a consequence of body weight reduction is unclear. Considering the availability of other weight loss strategies (e.g., caloric restriction, exercise training, bariatric surgery) to be used in obese HFpEF patients, answering this question is crucial to provide tailored therapeutic options in these subjects.SummaryIncretin-based drugs may represent a milestone in the treatment of obesity in HFpEF. Elucidating the contribution of weight loss in the overall benefit observed with these drugs is critical in the management of obese HFpEF patients, considering that other weight-lowering strategies are available and might represent potential alternative options for these patients.

> **[One small STEP, one giant leap: Semaglutide in the obese phenotype of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38460497)**
> * **Published**: 2024/03/08
> * **Journal**: *Med (New York, N.Y.)*
> * **Abstract**: While bodyweight reduction should be a primary intervention target in obese heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) patients, no pharmacological treatments have shown evidence. The STEP HFpEF trial1 showed that semaglutide significantly improved various aspects of heart failure-related clinical outcomes in obese HFpEF patients, along with remarkable weight loss.

> **[Obesity, heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, and the role of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38093506)**
> * **Published**: 2024
> * **Journal**: *ESC heart failure*
> * **Abstract**: Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) has a high prevalence, affecting more than 50% of patients with heart failure. HFpEF is associated with multiple comorbidities, and obesity is one of the most common. A distinct phenotype has been proposed for obese patients with HFpEF. Recent data show the beneficial role of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs) for weight loss in diabetic and non-diabetic patients with obesity or overweight when given as adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise. The mechanisms of action are related to paracrine and endocrine signalling pathways within the gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, and central nervous system that delay gastric emptying, decrease appetite, augment pancreatic beta-cell insulin secretion, and suppress pancreatic glucagon release. These drugs are therefore potentially indicated for treatment of patients with HFpEF and obesity or overweight. Efficacy and safety need to be shown by clinical trials with a first one, Semaglutide Treatment Effect in People with obesity and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (STEP HFpEF), recently concluded. The aim of the present review is to provide the pathophysiological and pharmacological rationale for GLP-1 RA administration to obese patients with HFpEF.

> **[Semaglutide in Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction: Benefits Above and Beyond Weight Loss](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38094694)**
> * **Published**: 2023/10/23
> * **Journal**: *JACC. Basic to translational science*
> * **Abstract**: 

> **[Semaglutide ameliorates lipopolysaccharide-induced acute lung injury through inhibiting HDAC5-mediated activation of NF-κB signaling pathway](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36075570)**
> * **Published**: 2022
> * **Journal**: *Human & experimental toxicology*
> * **Abstract**: BackgroundAs a life-threatening respiratory syndrome, acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by uncontrollable inflammatory activities. Semaglutide (SEM) has been identified as an effective anti-inflammatory drug in a variety of diseases. This study intended to explore the functional effect and potential mechanisms of SEM in ALI.MethodsLipopolysaccharide (LPS) was used to construct an in vivo ALI model based on Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and an in vitro ALI model based on human pulmonary artery endothelial cells (HPAECs). Hematoxylin &amp; eosin (H&amp;E) staining and ELISA were applied to evaluate the histopathological changes in pulmonary tissues and detect TNF-α and IL-6 levels. RT-qPCR and Western blotting were used to measure gene and protein expressions in pulmonary tissues and cells. HPAEC viability and apoptosis were evaluated by CCK-8 method and flow cytometry methods.ResultsSemaglutide pretreatment significantly mitigated pulmonary injury, reduced TNF-α and IL-6 production, and led to a decrease in cleaved caspase-3 level and an increase in Bcl-2 level, suggesting SEM could ameliorate LPS-induced ALI in rats. In vitro, SEM increased the proliferative capability and mitigated inflammation and apoptosis in LPS-stimulated HPAECs. In addition, SEM inhibited HDAC5-mediated NF-κB signaling pathway in HPAECs. HDAC5 overexpression or NF-κB signaling activation could partly impair SEM-mediated protective effects against LPS-induced damage to HPAECs.ConclusionSemaglutide restrains LPS-induced ALI by inhibiting HDAC5/NF-κB signaling pathway.

> **[Oral Semaglutide and Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31185157)**
> * **Published**: 2019/08/29
> * **Journal**: *The New England journal of medicine*
> * **Abstract**: BackgroundEstablishing cardiovascular safety of new therapies for type 2 diabetes is important. Safety data are available for the subcutaneous form of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist semaglutide but are needed for oral semaglutide.MethodsWe assessed cardiovascular outcomes of once-daily oral semaglutide in an event-driven, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial involving patients at high cardiovascular risk (age of ≥50 years with established cardiovascular or chronic kidney disease, or age of ≥60 years with cardiovascular risk factors only). The primary outcome in a time-to-event analysis was the first occurrence of a major adverse cardiovascular event (death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke). The trial was designed to rule out 80% excess cardiovascular risk as compared with placebo (noninferiority margin of 1.8 for the upper boundary of the 95% confidence interval for the hazard ratio for the primary outcome).ResultsA total of 3183 patients were randomly assigned to receive oral semaglutide or placebo. The mean age of the patients was 66 years; 2695 patients (84.7%) were 50 years of age or older and had cardiovascular or chronic kidney disease. The median time in the trial was 15.9 months. Major adverse cardiovascular events occurred in 61 of 1591 patients (3.8%) in the oral semaglutide group and 76 of 1592 (4.8%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.79; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.57 to 1.11; P&lt;0.001 for noninferiority). Results for components of the primary outcome were as follows: death from cardiovascular causes, 15 of 1591 patients (0.9%) in the oral semaglutide group and 30 of 1592 (1.9%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.27 to 0.92); nonfatal myocardial infarction, 37 of 1591 patients (2.3%) and 31 of 1592 (1.9%), respectively (hazard ratio, 1.18; 95% CI, 0.73 to 1.90); and nonfatal stroke, 12 of 1591 patients (0.8%) and 16 of 1592 (1.0%), respectively (hazard ratio, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.35 to 1.57). Death from any cause occurred in 23 of 1591 patients (1.4%) in the oral semaglutide group and 45 of 1592 (2.8%) in the placebo group (hazard ratio, 0.51; 95% CI, 0.31 to 0.84). Gastrointestinal adverse events leading to discontinuation of oral semaglutide or placebo were more common with oral semaglutide.ConclusionsIn this trial involving patients with type 2 diabetes, the cardiovascular risk profile of oral semaglutide was not inferior to that of placebo. (Funded by Novo Nordisk; PIONEER 6 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02692716.).

> **[Effect of Oral Semaglutide Compared With Placebo and Subcutaneous Semaglutide on Glycemic Control in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes: A Randomized Clinical Trial](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29049653)**
> * **Published**: 2017/10/17
> * **Journal**: *JAMA*
> * **Abstract**: ImportanceGlucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are effective therapies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and are all currently available as an injection.ObjectivesTo compare the effects of oral semaglutide with placebo (primary) and open-label subcutaneous semaglutide (secondary) on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.Design, setting, and patientsPhase 2, randomized, parallel-group, dosage-finding, 26-week trial with 5-week follow-up at 100 sites (hospital clinics, general practices, and clinical research centers) in 14 countries conducted between December 2013 and December 2014. Of 1106 participants assessed, 632 with type 2 diabetes and insufficient glycemic control using diet and exercise alone or a stable dose of metformin were randomized. Randomization was stratified by metformin use.InterventionsOnce-daily oral semaglutide of 2.5 mg (n = 70), 5 mg (n = 70), 10 mg (n = 70), 20 mg (n = 70), 40-mg 4-week dose escalation (standard escalation; n = 71), 40-mg 8-week dose escalation (slow escalation; n = 70), 40-mg 2-week dose escalation (fast escalation, n = 70), oral placebo (n = 71; double-blind) or once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide of 1.0 mg (n = 70) for 26 weeks.Main outcomes and measuresThe primary end point was change in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) from baseline to week 26. Secondary end points included change from baseline in body weight and adverse events.ResultsBaseline characteristics were comparable across treatment groups. Of the 632 randomized patients (mean age, 57.1 years [SD, 10.6]; men, 395 (62.7%); diabetes duration, 6.3 years [SD, 5.2]; body weight, 92.3 kg [SD, 16.8]; BMI, 31.7 [SD, 4.3]), 583 (92%) completed the trial. Mean change in HbA1c level from baseline to week 26 decreased with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -0.7% to -1.9%) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-1.9%) and placebo (-0.3%); oral semaglutide reductions were significant vs placebo (dosage-dependent estimated treatment difference [ETD] range for oral semaglutide vs placebo, -0.4% to -1.6%; P = .01 for 2.5 mg, &lt;.001 for all other dosages). Reductions in body weight were greater with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -2.1 kg to -6.9 kg) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-6.4 kg) vs placebo (-1.2 kg), and significant for oral semaglutide dosages of 10 mg or more vs placebo (dosage-dependent ETD range, -0.9 to -5.7 kg; P &lt; .001). Adverse events were reported by 63% to 86% (371 of 490 patients) in the oral semaglutide groups, 81% (56 of 69 patients) in the subcutaneous semaglutide group, and 68% (48 of 71 patients) in the placebo group; mild to moderate gastrointestinal events were most common.Conclusions and relevanceAmong patients with type 2 diabetes, oral semaglutide resulted in better glycemic control than placebo over 26 weeks. These findings support phase 3 studies to assess longer-term and clinical outcomes, as well as safety.Trial registrationclinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01923181.

> **[Discovery of the Once-Weekly Glucagon-Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) Analogue Semaglutide](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26308095)**
> * **Published**: 2015/09/24
> * **Journal**: *Journal of medicinal chemistry*
> * **Abstract**: Liraglutide is an acylated glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue that binds to serum albumin in vivo and is approved for once-daily treatment of diabetes as well as obesity. The aim of the present studies was to design a once weekly GLP-1 analogue by increasing albumin affinity and secure full stability against metabolic degradation. The fatty acid moiety and the linking chemistry to GLP-1 were the key features to secure high albumin affinity and GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) potency and in obtaining a prolonged exposure and action of the GLP-1 analogue. Semaglutide was selected as the optimal once weekly candidate. Semaglutide has two amino acid substitutions compared to human GLP-1 (Aib(8), Arg(34)) and is derivatized at lysine 26. The GLP-1R affinity of semaglutide (0.38 ± 0.06 nM) was three-fold decreased compared to liraglutide, whereas the albumin affinity was increased. The plasma half-life was 46.1 h in mini-pigs following i.v. administration, and semaglutide has an MRT of 63.6 h after s.c. dosing to mini-pigs. Semaglutide is currently in phase 3 clinical testing. 

> **[[Effect of electrolytes on the extraction of coniine, phenatin, cyclodol and tropacine by organic solvents]](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/5316)**
> * **Published**: 1975
> * **Journal**: *Farmatsiia*
> * **Abstract**: 

